<!-- source: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/1995_All-Big_East_Conference_football_team -->
{{Use mdy dates|date=August 2023}}
The '''1995 All-Big East Conference football team''' consists of [[American football]] players chosen by various selectors for their All-[[Big East Conference]] ("Big East") teams for the [[1995 NCAA Division I-A football season]]. Selectors in 1995 included the ''Football News'' (FN).

Six teams placed more than two players on the first team as follows:
* Despite finishing in last place in the conference, [[1995 Pittsburgh Panthers football team|Pittsburgh]] (0–7 record in conference play) led the conference with four players on the All-Big East first team. The Pitt honorees were: wide receiver [[Dietrich Jells]], linebacker [[Tom Tumulty]], placekicker Chris Ferencik, and punter Nate Cochran.<ref name=FN/>
* Conference champion [[1995 Virginia Tech Hokies football team|Virginia Tech]] was ranked No. 10 in the final [[AP Poll]] and placed three players on the first team: offensive lineman [[Bill Conaty]] and defensive linemen [[Cornell Brown]] and J. C. Price.<ref name=FN/>
* [[1995 Syracuse Orangemen football team|Syracuse]] was ranked No. 19 in the final AP Poll and also placed three players on the first team: quarterback [[Donovan McNabb]], wide receiver [[Marvin Harrison]], and defensive back [[Kevin Abrams (cornerback)|Kevin Abrams]].<ref name=FN/>
* [[1995 Miami Hurricanes football team|Miami]] was ranked No. 20 in the final AP Poll and placed three players on the first team: running back Danyell Ferguson, defensive lineman [[Kenny Holmes]], and linebacker [[Ray Lewis]].<ref name=FN/>
* Fourth-place [[1995 West Virginia Mountaineers football team|West Virginia]] also placed three on the first team: linebacker [[Canute Curtis]] and defensive backs [[Torrian Gray]] and William Yarborough.<ref name=FN/>
* Sixth-place [[1995 Rutgers Scarlet Knights football team|Rugers]] also placed three on the first team: running back Terrell Willis, tight end [[Marco Battaglia]], and offensive lineman Pat Cormann.<ref name=FN/>

==Offensive selections==
===Quarterbacks===
* [[Donovan McNabb]], Syracuse (FN)

===Running backs===
* Danyell Ferguson, Miami (FN)
* Terrell Willis, Rutgers (FN)

===Wide receivers===
* [[Marvin Harrison]], Syracuse (FN)
* [[Dietrich Jells]], Pittsburgh (FN)

===Tight ends===
* [[Marco Battaglia]], Rutgers (FN)

===Offensive linemen===
* Pat Corman, Rutgers (FN)
* [[Bill Conaty]], Virginia Tech (FN)
* John Summerday, Temple (FN)
* [[Pete Kendall]], Boston College (FN)

==Defensive selections==
===Defensive linemen===
* [[Cornell Brown]], Virginia Tech (FN)
* J. C. Price, Virginia Tech (FN)
* [[Kenny Holmes]], Miami (FN)

===Linebackers===
* [[Ray Lewis]], Miami (FN)
* [[Lance Johnstone]], Temple (FN)
* [[Tom Tumulty]], Pittsburgh (FN)
* [[Canute Curtis]], West Virginia (FN)

===Defensive backs===
* [[Kevin Abrams (cornerback)|Kevin Abrams]], Syracuse (FN)
* [[Torrian Gray]], Virginia Tech (FN)
* William Yarborough, West Virginia (FN)

==Special teams==
===Placekickers===
* Chris Ferencik, Pittsburgh (FN)

===Punters===
* Nate Cochran, Pittsburgh (FN)

==Key==
FN = ''Football News''<ref name=FN>{{cite news|title=1995 Football News All-Big East Conference football team|newspaper=Pittsburgh Post-Gazette|date=November 30, 1995|page=C7|url=https://www.newspapers.com/clip/7282848/1995_football_news_allbig_east/}}</ref>

==References==
{{Reflist}}

{{1995 college football honor teams}}

[[Category:1995 Big East Conference football season|All-Big East Conference football team]]
[[Category:All-Big East Conference football teams]]