<!-- source: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/1996_College_Football_All-America_Team -->
{{Short description|Official list of the best college football players of 1996}}
{{Use mdy dates|date=August 2023}}
{{sidebar
| width = 25em
| title = 1996 College Football All-America Team
| headingstyle = border-top:#aaa 1px solid
| content1style = border-top:1px #aaa solid
| content1 = [[College Football All-America Team]]
| heading2 = 
| content2 = [[1996 NCAA Division I-A football season]]
| heading3 = 
| content3 = 
| content4style = border-top:1px #aaa solid
| content4 =  ← [[1995 College Football All-America Team|1995]] &nbsp; [[1997 College Football All-America Team|1997]] → 
}}

{{more citations needed|date=December 2016}}
The '''1996 All-America college football team'''is composed of [[college football]] players who were selected as [[All-America|All-Americans]] by various organizations and writers that chose [[College Football All-America Team|College Football All-America Teams]] in 1996. The [[National Collegiate Athletic Association]] (NCAA) recognizes seven selectors as "official" for the 1996 season.<ref name=CAA>{{cite web|title=Football Award Winners|publisher=National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA)|year=2016|access-date=October 21, 2017|page=10|url=http://fs.ncaa.org/Docs/stats/football_records/2016/Awards.pdf|archive-date=October 22, 2017|archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20171022194854/http://fs.ncaa.org/Docs/stats/football_records/2016/Awards.pdf|url-status=bot: unknown}}</ref> They are: (1) the [[Associated Press]] (AP),<ref>{{cite news|title=AP All-America|url=https://www.newspapers.com/clip/11097269/ap_allamerica/|access-date=May 19, 2017|work=The Salina Journal|date=December 12, 1996|page=18|via=Newspapers.com}}</ref> (2) the [[American Football Coaches Association]] (AFCA), (3) ''Football News'', (4) the [[Football Writers Association of America]] (FWAA) selected by the nation's football writers; (5) ''[[Sporting News|The Sporting News]]'' (TSN);  the [[United Press International]] (UPI) - in its last year as a selector - selected based on the votes of sports writers at UPI newspapers; and the [[Walter Camp Football Foundation]] (WC).

The College Football All-America Team is an honor given annually to the best American college football players at their respective positions. The original usage of the term All-America seems to have been to such a list selected by football pioneer Walter Camp in the 1890s. The NCAA has officially recognized All-Americans selected by over a changing roster of over 20 organizations. In 1995, the official selectors were the AP, UPI, AFCA, FWAA, WCFF, TSN, and FN to determine Consensus All-Americans.

The Newspaper Enterprise Association (NEA), the oldest All-American college football selection at the time and once an official selector, also selected a team - the last one they selected.<ref>{{cite news |last1=Siner |first1=Howard |title=1996 Team: Troy Davis leads All-Americans |url=https://books.google.com/books?id=wscwAAAAIBAJ&pg=PA7&dq=%22Phil+Dawson%22&article_id=3795,6986017&hl=en&sa=X&ved=2ahUKEwjuyq7YvuGSAxXTEWIAHccJDVgQ6AF6BAgHEAM#v=onepage&q=%22Phil%20Dawson%22&f=false |access-date=23 February 2026 |work=The Cedartown Standard |date=19 December 1996}}</ref>

A player is named to the Consensus team if they are selected first team by a majority of the recognized All-America teams, in this case 4. If no player at a position meets that majority threshold, a player can still qualify by earning first-team honors from at least two of the designated selectors. Second- and third-team honors are used as tie-breakers, and if a true tie remains, all tied players are included.

== Offense ==

===Quarterback===
*'''[[Danny Wuerffel]]''', Florida (College Football Hall of Fame) <small>(AP-1, AFCA-Coaches, Walter Camp, TSN, FN, NEA-1)</small>
*[[Jake Plummer]], Arizona St. <small>(AP-2, FWAA-Writers, NEA-2)</small>
*[[Peyton Manning]], Tennessee <small>(AP-3)</small>

===Running backs===
*'''[[Byron Hanspard]]''', Texas Tech  <small>(AP-1, AFCA-Coaches, FWAA-Writers, Walter Camp, TSN, FN)</small>
*'''[[Troy Davis (running back)|Troy Davis]]''', Iowa State (College Football Hall of Fame) <small>(AP-1, FWAA-Writers, Walter Camp, TSN, FN, NEA-1)</small>
*[[Warrick Dunn]], Florida St. <small>(AP-2, FWAA-Writers, NEA-1)</small>
*[[Darnell Autry]], Northwestern  <small>(AP-2, AFCA-Coaches, NEA-2)</small>
*[[Ron Dayne]], Wisconsin (College Football Hall of Fame) <small>(AP-3)</small>
*[[Corey Dillon]], Washington <small>(AP-3)</small>
*[[Tiki Barber]], Virginia <small>(NEA-2)</small>

===Wide receivers===
*'''[[Marcus Harris (American football, born 1974)|Marcus Harris]]''', Wyoming <small>(AP-1, AFCA-Coaches, FWAA-Writers, Walter Camp, FN, NEA-1)</small>
*'''[[Ike Hilliard]]''', Florida <small>(AP-3, AFCA-Coaches, FWAA-Writers, Walter Camp, FN, NEA-2)</small>
*'''[[Reidel Anthony]]''', Florida <small> (AP-1, TSN, NEA-2)</small>
*[[Rae Carruth]], Colorado <small>(AP-2, TSN, NEA-1)</small>
*[[Keith Poole]], Arizona State <small>(AP-2)</small>
*[[Kevin Lockett]], Kansas St. <small>(AP-3)</small>

===Tight end===
*[[David LaFleur]], LSU <small>(AP-3, Walter Camp, NEA-1)</small>
*'''[[Tony Gonzalez]]''', California <small>(AP-2, TSN, FN, NEA-2)</small>
*[[Itula Mili]], BYU <small>(AFCA-Coaches)</small>
*[[Pat Fitzgerald (tight end)|Pat Fitzgerald]], Texas <small>(AP-1)</small>

===Guards/tackles===
*'''[[Orlando Pace]]''', Ohio St. (College Football Hall of Fame) <small>(AP-1, AFCA-Coaches, FWAA-Writers, Walter Camp, TSN, FN, NEA-1)</small>
*'''[[Juan Roque]]''', Arizona St. <small>(AP-1, AFCA-Coaches, FWAA-Writers, Walter Camp, FN, NEA-1)</small>
*'''[[Benji Olson]]''', Washington <small>(AP-1, TSN, FN)</small>
*[[Scott Sanderson (American football)|Scott Sanderson]], Washington State <small>(AP-3, TSN, NEA-2)</small>
*'''[[Chris Naeole]]''', Colorado  <small>(AP-1, AFCA-Coaches, Walter Camp, FN, NEA-1)</small>
*'''[[Dan Neil (American football)|Dan Neil]]''', Texas <small>(AP-2, AFCA-Coaches, FWAA-Writers, Walter Camp, TSN, NEA-1)</small>
*[[Steve Scifres]], Wyoming  <small>(AP-2, FWAA-Writers, NEA-2)</small>
*[[Chris Dishman]], Nebraska <small>(AP-2)</small>
*[[Walter Jones (American football)|Walter Jones]], Florida St. <small>(AP-2)</small>
*Ben Kaufman, Texas Tech <small>(AP-3)</small>
*[[Adam Meadows]], Georgia <small>(AP-3)</small>
*[[Jerry Wunsch]], Wisconsin <small>(AP-3)</small>
*[[Jamie Nails]], Florida A&M <small>(NEA-2)</small>
*[[Paul Wiggins (American football)|Paul Wiggins]], Oregon <small>(NEA-2)</small>

===Center ===
*'''[[Aaron Taylor (born 1975)|Aaron Taylor]]''', Nebraska  <small>(AP-2, FWAA-Writers, Walter Camp, FN, NEA-1)</small>
*[[Rod Payne]], Michigan  <small>(AFCA-Coaches)</small>
*[[K. C. Jones (American football)|K. C. Jones]], Miami (Fla.) <small>(AP-1)</small>
*[[Billy Conaty]], Virginia Tech <small>(TSN)</small>
*[[Jeff Mitchell]], Florida <small>(AP-3)</small>
*[[Ryan Tucker]], Texas Christian <small>(NEA-2)</small>

== Defense ==

===Linemen===
*'''[[Grant Wistrom]]''', Nebraska (College Football Hall of Fame) <small>(AP-1, AFCA-Coaches, FWAA-Writers, TSN, FN, NEA-1)</small>
*'''[[Reinard Wilson]]''', Florida St. <small>(AP-1, AFCA-Coaches, Walter Camp, FWAA-Writers, NEA-1)</small>
*'''[[Peter Boulware]]''', Florida St. <small>(AP-1, FWAA-Writers, TSN, FN, NEA-1)</small>
*'''[[Mike Vrabel]]''', Ohio State  <small>(AP-2, AFCA-Coaches, Walter Camp, NEA-2)</small>
*'''[[Derrick Rodgers]]''', Arizona St. <small>(AP-1, FWAA-Writers, NEA-1)</small>
*[[Jared Tomich]], Nebraska <small>(AP-2, Walter Camp, NEA-2)</small>
*[[Cornell Brown]], Virginia Tech <small>(AP-2, Walter Camp, NEA-2)</small>
*[[Michael Myers (American football)|Michael Myers]], Alabama <small>(TSN)</small>
*[[Tarek Saleh]], Wisconsin <small>(FN)</small>
*[[William Carr (arena football)|William Carr]], Michigan <small>(AP-2)</small>
*[[Greg Ellis (American football)|Greg Ellis]], North Carolina <small>(AP-3)</small>
*[[Leonard Little]], Tennessee <small>(AP-3)</small>
*[[Darrell Russell (American football)|Darrell Russell]], USC <small>(AP-3, NEA-2)</small>

===Linebackers===
*'''[[Canute Curtis]]''', West Virginia <small>(AP-1, AFCA-Coaches-DL, FWAA-Writers, TSN, FN, NEA-1)</small>
*'''[[Pat Fitzgerald]]''', Northwestern (College Football Hall of Fame) <small>(AP-1, AFCA-Coaches, FWAA-Writers, Walter Camp, FN, NEA-1)</small>
*'''[[Jarrett Irons]]''', Michigan  <small>(AP-1, AFCA-Coaches, Walter Camp, NEA-2)</small>
*'''[[Matt Russell]]''', Colorado <small>(AP-1, FWAA-Writers, Walter Camp, TSN)</small>
*[[Jason Chorak]], Washington <small>(AP-3 {as DL], TSN, FN)</small>
*[[Dwayne Rudd]], Alabama  <small>(AP-2, AFCA-Coaches)</small> 
*[[Anthony Simmons (American football)|Anthony Simmons]], Clemson <small>(AP-3, TSN)</small>
*[[Keith Mitchell (American football)|Keith Mitchell]], Texas A&M <small>(AP-3, FN)</small>
*[[Andy Katzenmoyer]], Ohio St. <small>(AP-2)</small>
*[[Brian Simmons]], North Carolina <small>(AP-2)</small>
*[[Takeo Spikes]], Auburn <small>(AP-2)</small>
*[[Tyrus McCloud]], Louisville <small>(AP-3)</small>
*[[Antwaune Ponds]], Syracuse <small>(AP-3)</small>
*[[James Farrior]], Virginia <small>(NEA-2)</small>

===Backs===
*'''[[Chris Canty (defensive back)|Chris Canty]]''', Kansas St. <small>(AP-1, AFCA-Coaches, FWAA-Writers, Walter Camp, TSN, FN, NEA-1)</small>
*'''[[Dré Bly]]''', North Carolina (College Football Hall of Fame) <small>(AP-1, FWAA-Writers, Walter Camp, TSN, NEA-1)</small>
*[[Charles Woodson]], Michigan (College Football Hall of Fame) <small>(AP-1, FWAA-Writers, NEA-1)</small>
*'''[[Shawn Springs]]''', Ohio St. <small>(AP-2, AFCA-Coaches, Walter Camp, FN, NEA-2)</small>
*'''[[Kevin Jackson (American football)|Kevin Jackson]]''', Alabama <small>(AP-1, AFCA-Coaches, FWAA-Writers, Walter Camp, TSN, FN, NEA-1)</small>
*[[Kim Herring]], Penn State <small>(AP-2, TSN, NEA-2)</small>
*[[Kevin Abrams (cornerback)|Kevin Abrams]], Syracuse <small>(AFCA-Coaches)</small>
*[[Sam Madison]], Louisville  <small>(AP-3, FN, NEA-2)</small>
*[[Bryant Westbrook]], Texas <small>(AP-2, NEA-2)</small>
*[[Kenny Wheaton]], Oregon <small>(AP-2)</small>
*Eric Allen, Indiana <small>(AP-3)</small>
*[[Ronde Barber]], Virginia <small>(AP-3)</small>
*Steve Rosga, Colorado <small>(AP-3)</small>

== Specialists ==

===Placekicker===
*'''[[Marc Primanti]]''', N.C. St. <small>(AP-1, FWAA-Writers, TSN, FN, NEA-1)</small>
*Cory Wedel, Wyoming <small>(AFCA-Coaches, Walter Camp)</small>
*Rafael Garcia, Virginia <small>(AP-2)</small>
*Damon Shea, Nevada <small>(AP-3)</small>
*[[Phil Dawson]], Texas <small>(NEA-2)</small>

===Punter===
*[[Noel Prefontaine]], San Diego St. <small>(AP-1, FWAA-Writers, NEA-2)</small>
*'''[[Brad Maynard]]''', Ball State <small>(AP-2, AFCA, Coaches, Walter Camp, NEA-1)</small>
*Bill Marrinangle, Vanderbilt <small>(TSN)</small>
*[[Toby Gowin]], North Texas <small>(AP-3)</small>

=== All-purpose / kick returners ===
*[[Tim Dwight]], Iowa <small>(FWAA-Writers)</small>
*[[Kevin Faulk]], LSU <small>(AP-1)</small>
*Terry Battle, Arizona St. <small>(AP-2, TSN)</small>
*[[Beau Morgan]], Air Force <small>(AP-3)</small>

==See also==
* [[1996 All-Atlantic Coast Conference football team]]
* [[1996 All-Big 12 Conference football team]]
* [[1996 All-Big Ten Conference football team]]
* [[1996 All-Pacific-10 Conference football team]]
* [[1996 All-SEC football team]]

==References==
{{Reflist}}

{{1996 NCAA Division I-A College Football Consensus All-Americans}}
{{College Football All-America Teams}}

[[Category:1996 NCAA Division I-A football season|All-America Team]]
[[Category:All-America college football teams]]